American Jews have rallied across the US
in support of Palestine organizers of
the if not now movement plan to protest
outside the White House on Monday the
demanding that US President Joe Biden
uses his leverage to implement a
ceasefire and every possible tool to
quote Force Israel to Halt its genocide
of Palestinians in Gaza the movement was
founded in 2014 to protest to us defense
Aid to Israel well for more on this
let's bring in Mariah Kaplan who's the
managing director of if not now movement
she's joining us from New York thank you
very much indeed for being with us uh
first of all let me just ask you what is
the motivation behind your
organization the motivation behind our
organization as you said we were founded
in 2014 in a moment that had you know
distressingly similar uh you know
similarities to this moment and what we
were seeing then and a lot of what we're
seeing now is um the the Relentless um
you know know beating the drums of War
saying that you know Israel has a right
to defend itself and and nothing else
and um and that being used to um murder
thousands of Palestinians um and we felt
it was really important that there was a
Jewish voice saying not in our name we
don't believe that this kind of
aggression makes Jews safer it doesn't
make Israelis safer and it's important
for American Jews to be able to say you
know we do not want this type of
violence to be happening in our name um
and we want to urge our government to
use every tool at its disposal to save
lives in this situation so you're
planning a protest outside the White
House it's been what N9 years since you
started started the the organization why
do you think that the White House the or
the at least the administration that is
in the White House at the moment is
going to listen to you any more than
perhaps previous ones
have Joe Biden has a long career of
resolving armed conflict he also has a
long career on this issue in particular
I think he wants to lead on this issue
he touts his close relationship with
Netanyahu um you know but some from
South Africa to Ireland President Biden
has been able to resolve armed conflict
I think um this could be an important
part of his legacy rather than a legacy
of um you know arming a genocide um and
we believe that you know it's important
for them to see that there are thousands
and thousands of people of American Jews
who are saying we will not let our grief
or our the death of our loved ones be
used to um to justify more war just
before we talk to you you may have heard
that we were doing a story about the
six-year-old boy in Chicago who's been
stabbed and his mother has been badly
injured by Within what is being
described as a hate crime How concerned
are you about the rise or aise rise in
in hate crime between uh Jews and
Muslims between attacks on possible
attacks on synagogues possible attacks
on mosques in the United States as a
result of
this as I think we're seeing you know as
these extremist positions are echoed
obviously it leads to more violence it
doesn't lead to less violence it's
obviously incredibly dangerous you know
for Palestinian Americans I think it's
dangerous for American Jews and for
Israelis I think the only way to end
this is to implement a ceasefire get a
just solution a lasting piece to this
conflict not more cycles of War um you
know we're hearing uh Israelis on the
ground who have survived these massacres
who have lost dozens of loved ones are
saying these soldiers are a Band-Aid
military campaigns are a Band-Aid this
is just more of the same this isn't
going to bring safety for anyone and
what we need is for our government to
use its leverage not to send weapons to
uh to the Israeli government which has
openly voiced its genocidal intentions
but to really bring an end to this that
is the only thing that is going to make
all of us more safe we cannot bomb our
way to a lasting peace as I mentioned
before you were formed in 2014 and in
that time have you seen any change in
the level of Interest the level of of uh
engagement if you like by um people who
were wanting to join organizations like
yours I mean what we're seeing in this
moment is an outpouring of energy and
support and people looking for some
place to direct their energy unlike what
we've what we've ever seen even in 2014
I think um there are a lot of people who
are looking for guidance in this moment
who are looking for somewhere that they
can grieve for both Israelis and
Palestinians um and I think you know
hopefully our leaders will listen to us
and see that energy and see that shift
obviously in recent years there's been
um growing acceptance of the term
apartheid of understanding the systemic
roots of the issue I think that is a
good thing you know we can't find a
solution if we don't get the problem I
think there's more awareness coming
around that and I think in this moment
in particular is an opportunity to
really harness the energy um of people
who are saying we do not want more
violence to be happening in our name we
don't not want more violence to be
happening with our tax dollars we do not
believe that this is the right this is
the role that we should be playing that
you know that our community should be
endorsing that our leaders should be
pushing for um and that again we just
need our government to act to save lives
right now because they can if they
choose to they can save lives thank you
very much indeed for being with us on
aler Mariah Kaplan we appreciate it
thank you thank you